>> Steve Kinney: If button was
the hello world and card was the okay,
I want to see with more
than one component.
I feel like the one place that is the area
in which most of us have to spend
time when building kind of like
a component library design system.
Form inputs, input fields,
all of those things.
Those are usually the heavy lifting of
a lot of what we're kind of styling and
designing.
And you can see this version
that I've got on the page here.
We're gonna go jump back over to the skate
park in a second and style one of these.
But if I just grab a basic form input,
as you can see, Tailwind, again,
is not like Bootstrap in the point where
you can smell it from a mile away.
It is simply a library for you to kind
of like, use these utility classes.
It does give you some default padding.
Which one.
REM being 16 is not
particularly controversial.
The color palette is totally customizable,
but like I said, it is not out of the box.
Your app should not smell like
a Tailwind app immediately, right?
Because Tailwind does not give
you a lot out of the box and
you're still kind of like
doing that theming yourself.
So this is our good friend,
the input field.
And what we're gonna do
is not unlike the card.
We are going to slice and
dice it like a dozen different
ways over our time together.
Because there is a lot of nuance
to all the things you can do.
If you think about, like, the default
form state, what if it's required?
What if it's invalid?
What if it's all of these?
What if it's a number field?
What if it's a range?
So what is the checkbox input?
There's a number of, like,
varietals of the input field.
That gives us a kind of a rich place to
kind of go looking in this case as well.
So let's go ahead and
let's take a look at at that.
If I go back into the playground,
I can see that I've got an input,
and cool, cool, cool.
This one has what looks like
a little bit more markup,
just simply because we're going to use it
for a whole bunch of different purposes.
I'm gonna look at just the code for
a second and
then we'll take a look
at it in storybook too.
But effectively, it's a div.
It's got a label, it's got an input,
it's got a little bit of support for
some ARIA tags.
You can put a little description or
an error Message again,
just some templating so we can pop
that stuff in with Storybook and
not have to make 1000 of these and
copy and paste our classes 1000 times.
Because like we said before,
yes, that feels annoying.
But arguably, in any larger code base,
whether that's Ruby on rails,
through jQuery, through React,
through Svelte, through whatever,
you probably have some kind
of templating going on.
Cool, all right,
that looks like some markup where
we've got just some placeholders in
there and a little bit of conditional.
And in our Storybook side of the house,
you're going to see that it doesn't look
like much, but don't worry,
we'll make it look like something.
They're very close to what
we saw on the page earlier.
If you click on it, you will see the
outline ring that comes from the browser.
That's about it.
If you want to get rid of that, you can do
outline none and you won't even see that.
But what it turns out is you can do all
sorts of stuff and you can see I made
a bunch of stories here that are just
little tweaks to the input field.
All this is is the same input field,
but it's type email, right?
You know,
I guess they all have a placeholder.
Yeah, this one has
the description filled in.
This one has an error.
This one's a password field,
this one's disabled.
The other thing that you can do,
especially if you have a little more
screen real estate than I do, is you can
go ahead and if you're just designing,
you can toggle any of these the way
that you want in Storybook, right?
Set any of the other properties that come
with an input field however you might want
if you need to test different states.
But we don't need to do that.
If you're playing around and
you want to, it's there for you.
But these are all
the same input component.
These are not different
files you have to edit.
This is just one component with some
different placeholder settings for
you to experiment.
Okay, so we wanna style this thing, right?
And there is a lot of rich
things we can do here as well.
So we'll do some basic styling here where,
like I said, most CSS properties
that you would want to use have a tailwind
class that is associated with them.
So, for instance, if we wanted to do
the kind of more traditional thing where
they stack, right,
we can make them block elements, right?
Just display: block.
Anyone want to venture what that class is?
Block, block, display, inline.
Sometimes it's the property
name in this case,
it is the value dot block
gives us display block.
Okay, now they're stacked.
I could technically do that for
the input as well.
That feels right.
So now they're both block elements.
So they both kind of stack
on top of each other.
What else?
You know what my favorite font
weight is or should we do medium?
Let's do medium.
I like semi-bold.
You wanna see the difference?
Semi-bold's a little heavier.
Too dark, see?
Semi-bold is 600.
Medium, I'm gonna guess is 500.
The default is usually 400.
There's also thin.
You want to go the other direction.
There's bold, which is, I believe, 700.
Don't quote me on that.
So we've got that.
All right, we're getting there.
What else do I wanna do?
Label, you could
theoretically do something.
Like I said, you can use gray.
I like slate.
I read a blog post one time,
like five years ago that said you should
never actually use full black anywhere.
So now I take that seriously.
I don't even know if it's true.
It's just one of those things.
As a front end engineer, sometimes
I like cosplay as a designer, but
I don't know what I'm talking about.
All right, the input field, I mean, the
label was not what was driving us nuts.
This is what's really hurting our
feelings in this case, right?
I don't love this, right?
So there's a bunch of options in
this case for stuff like focus or
anything that happens on any
kind of interactive level.
Border is a bad idea because we know
it's going to shift the layout.
I've seen it done both ways
in different code bases.
For an input, whether or
not you use a border and
then theoretically an outline for
the hover states, or whether or
not you just have an outline and then
change it for the hover states, either.
I think as long as you're
consistent about that,
if you have some inputs that do
use outlines that have border,
that's gonna be problematic cuz
good luck aligning those things.
Either is fine with me.
I've done both.
It's fine.
So let's do.
>> Speaker 2: Why do you have class block
on the label and class block on the input?
>> Steve Kinney: Because they're
both technically in-line, right?
So I wanted to make them both block.
At this point, one block,
the other one will stack below it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
that doesn't carry through.
>> Steve Kinney: No, because it's
only applying to this element.
Right, block.
Yeah, these appear so
they wouldn't cascade anyway.
But font and
colors cascade layout does not.
So we got it on both of those now
they're both block elements and Cool.
So now we can begin to style this
one where there are a lot of things
that we can do to an element in this case.
So let's see, we can go ahead and
I'm gonna say,
let's give it some kind of,
let's do a border.
Let's do the one that I
didn't do in the notes.
Why not?
No, not doing that.
I'm not doing that this time, Dustin.
Not doing it.
I'm not going rogue.
We'll give it an outline of 2, 1, okay?
The nice part about the IntelliSense
is if you have duplicate class names,
it'll give you the brown squiggly.
Because outline one and outline not
only contradict each other, but
they're also the same class, right?
So let's just go with
outline in that case.
So it's got outline.
We'll say outline-slate.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and
we were team rounded in this case, right?
MD is too much?
Steve's face said MD is too much.
Feels better, right?
You want some padding, don't you?
You want a little bit of padding?
I'll give you a little bit of padding.
Give it a little bit of padding there and
we can give you a little py.
I don't know.
Let's do 1.5 in that case.
Too much.
That's the nice part, is that you
can kind of see all this stuff.
The other thing I might do here for
right now is I'm gonna do space y.
Let's go with one.
Just a little bit of breathing room.
The nice part about using space
versus using a margin bottom or
margin top is when description or
error show up,
that spacing will be every
element inside that division.
So they will also get that spacing right.
If you find yourself again like
putting like MB1MB1MB1 to put
a margin bottom on all of them but
the first one, stop.
Take a moment of self reflection.
Realize if something is that tedious,
there might be a better way.
So that space Y that we just saw
earlier will work and we gave it
a little space and it'll work for when
the other stuff kind of comes in as well.
And like I said, you can check
out one of those other stories.
Be a little more screen
real estate than I do.
You'll see it immediately.
>> Speaker 2: Is it best to put that space
on the div, the outside container there?
>> Steve Kinney: So space in this case,
like flex and grid,
will then put space between
all the children, right?
So like everything but the first child is
going to get a margin bottom in this case.
So in that one you would have
to put it on the parent and
that would put the spacing in
between all of its children.
Cool, cool, cool.
What else might we want to do to this?
There's tons that we can do right now it
technically has a transparent background.
So that doesn't matter cuz
that background is white.
Storybook does not like
how zoomed in I am.
So we'll deal with that in a second.
It's technically transparent.
So if you put it on a card that had
that background, it's going to change.
So let's give it a background of white so
it' stays.
We don't see anything different there
cuz white on a white background.
Cool, and so
now we've got kind of the basis.
The other thing you can do, this is
a personal design choice, I don't care,
is you could decide if you want
it to be the full width, right?
And so that one's just width full.
And there are a whole
bunch of other stops.
There are even fun like fractional
ones like width 1/3 and
stuff along those lines or width screen
all of the different variations.
But width full is just a fun thing for
width 100%.
Dustin, what's up?
>> Dustin: What is your reasoning for when
to use Flexbox vs When to use spacing?
>> Steve Kinney: I generally think
if all I am absolutely doing at all
is just spacing on one dimension and I'm
not doing stuff like aligning, you know,
center aligning all the items or
anything along those lines.
I will usually use the space.
I'm gonna be honest with you,
I don't know if this is true.
I feel like if I just use Flexbox for
one thing that I'm wasting a flexbox or
something.
I'm not convinced there's
a performance hit.
I have never seen one.
But somewhere deep in my soul I feel
like there is based entirely on feels.
And I feel guilty if I use a Flexbox
when I could have used the space.
That's not the answer you wanted.
That's the real answer.
But yeah, there are some implications
of a flexbox and flex items, so on and
so forth.
Have I ever been bitten by them?
I have not.
But I understand there's
probably a reason why they exist.
I don't need to get bitten
by Them to find out.
So, yeah, if I'm only using it for
the spacing, only in one direction and
not using it to reflect stuff,
I will go for space.
But part of that is emotional.
Sorry, [LAUGH] it's true.
Cool, so then we can kind of talk
a little about these focus states.
And there's various focus
states that are present here.
In this case, we've got this outline of
four that I kind of put in
there while I was talking.
Seems a little egregious.
Blue-400, I like that.
And the outline is slate normally.
I could also go for 600 both ways.
All right, so now when it is focus,
it will get that as well.
So you kinda like, either way,
cuz inputs get the focus also when
you are typing into them, right?
There are a few other cool things and
we can argue are these tailwind,
Are they css?
They're technically css,
because tailwind is just CSS
that you can do where you can say,
let's make the placeholder.
The color one is super easy.
And then we'll show there's a variant for
the rest of this.
I'll do something a little more
egregious here so that [LAUGH].
This is like, yeah, on one hand,
I'm trying to make this realistic.
On the other hand,
this is no place for subtlety.
You can see I can make the placeholder
red, which is a ridiculous idea.
But just, you know, going from kind of
a gray to kind of a bluish gray does not
really make my point
the same way red does.
And you can also even, like,
there is also a placeholder variant.
So I can say placeholder,
and I could say, like, italic.
Now the placeholder is italic, so
you can style that placeholder
as well with all these.
I don't actually want to do that, though.
That looks stupid.
So we'll get rid of that.
But yeah,
I could do something like placeholder,
slightly lighter text,
whatever you want to do.
So you can style that as well.
The other thing you can do in tailwind,
depending on what you are trying
to achieve, is for most things, we've only
talked because we're positive people.
We've only talked about a positive value.
For instance, what if you wanted
to have the outline offset?
We know how to do.
Let me give it a border for one second.
And I can do outline offset.
Let's do something a little more.
So I've got that outline
around the input field.
And so the other thing you can do if
you wanted to at any given point for
a lot of these classes,
is you could give it a negative value.
Most of these variants also have a,
actually not of all things,
not an outline.
That's why ring exists, right?
But if you wanted negative margins,
this is negative MT2, negative MT4,
like a dash before that will be
the negative value in either direction.
Outline, you can't have an inset outline.
Well, mostly because those words
don't even make sense, and
that's why you would still use a ring for
that.
But you can do negative values as well.